README.md, before:

# GH Repos Search

Next.js app that allows you to search for the repositories owned by a user or an organization. Results are paginated and a user can filter and sort the responses. 

Basic styling was done using Tailwind, API was built using TRPC, and GH API data was fetched using octokit.

![image](https://github.com/dominic-farquharson/gh-repo-search/assets/22961764/b7d76315-f920-4bcd-8f37-e3e754382e66)


## Setup
1. install latest version of node 18
1. Run `cp .env.example .env` to create a local .env file
  1. Create a PAT on GH and add to the .env file

## Installation
1. Run `npm i`
1. Run `npm run dev` to start app.
1. Run `npm run test` to run test suite.

## Technologies Used:
1. Next.js
1. T3 boilerplate (typescript, tailwind, trpc)
1. Zod
1. Octokit

## Future Improvements
- Styling!
- cache user/org check response. 
  - This is fetched each time the user makes a request which is redundant during pagination.
- Improve Zod validation during repo search
- Switch to dedicated form library
- Switch to FE styling library built on top of Tailwind or another option such as MUI.
- Improve FE validation and return better error messages to user.
- Move all string values (error messages, etc) to external constant.

## Deployment
[link](https://gh-repo-search-sepia.vercel.app/)

*Note: PAT expires in 7 days.*

Commit message:

update readme with technical choices and new features

README.md, after:

# GH Repos Search

Next.js app that allows you to search for the repositories owned by a user or an organization. Results are paginated and a user can filter and sort the responses. 

Basic styling was done using Tailwind, API was built using TRPC, and GH API data was fetched using octokit.

![image](https://github.com/dominic-farquharson/gh-repo-search/assets/22961764/b7d76315-f920-4bcd-8f37-e3e754382e66)

## Setup
1. install latest version of node 18
1. Run `cp .env.example .env` to create a local .env file
  1. Create a PAT on GH and add to the .env file

## Installation
1. Run `npm i`
1. Run `npm run dev` to start app.
1. Run `npm run test` to run test suite.

## Technologies Used:
1. Next.js
1. T3 boilerplate (typescript, tailwind, trpc)
1. Zod
1. Octokit

## Future Improvements
- Styling / responsiveness
- cache user/org check response. 
  - This is fetched each time the user makes a request which is redundant during pagination.
- Improve Zod validation during repo search
- Switch to dedicated form library
- Switch to FE styling library built on top of Tailwind or another option such as MUI.
- Improve FE validation and return better error messages to user.
- Move all string values (error messages, etc) to external constant.

## New Features
- Infinite scroll instead of pagination ( bi-directional to preserve storing page in URL )
- Add toggle to switch between tabular / non tabular view
- Store a user's search history and allow them to quickly navigate back to a previous search
- Autocomplete while searching

## Technical choices

TRPC was used for the API since it provides end to end type safety and provides the FE with a fully typed API client to make requests with. Tailwind was used for styling since it's easy to configure, provides great utiltiy classes and was something I wanted to gain more experience with. I decided to store the majority of the state within the URL to allow for link sharing and cut down on FE state logic.

## Deployment
[link](https://gh-repo-search-sepia.vercel.app/)

*Note: PAT expires in 7 days.*
